feat: propose DeputyPauseModule (#162)
ethereum-optimism/design-docs: protocol/deputy-pause-module.md

Reviewer: Some open questions:
1. how is the deputy address managed, can the deputy or some other account change it? 
2. Is the DPM upgradeable?

Author: 1. Deputy address would probably be hard-coded into the `DeputyPauseModule` and could only be modified by having the Foundation Safe remove the module and replace it with another module.
2. No, I would propose that the `DeputyPauseModule` not be upgradeable and simply be replaced with a new module if we need to update it.

We currently have two Safe accounts for the Foundation:

1. `0x847B5c174615B1B7fDF770882256e2D3E95b9D92` - known as the "Foundation Upgrade Safe" was
  deployed on 2024-02-08 and is used as one owner on the 2/2 System Owner Safe that can upgrade
  OP Mainnet (alongside the Security Council).
2. `0x9BA6e03D8B90dE867373Db8cF1A58d2F7F006b3A` - known as the "Foundation Operations Safe" was
  deployed on 2021-01-16, is used for pre-signed pauses, and is one signer on the 2/2 System Owner
  Safe that can upgrade Base.

We propose the following actions:

1. `DeputyPauseModule` will be installed into `0x9BA6`.
1. `0x847B` will be replaced with `0x9BA6` in the OP Mainnet 2/2.
1. `0x847B` will be deprecated generally.

Please note that step (2) requires action by the Security Council and governance communication. If
going through the whole process of replacing one of the 2/2 signers is too much of a pain, we can
also consider the following alternative:

1. `DeputyPauseModule` will be installed into `0x9BA6`.
1. `DeputyPauseModule` will be installed into `0x847B`.
1. Security Council sets `0x847B` as the Deputy Guardian.
1. Base replaces `0x9BA6` with `0x847B` in its 2/2.

> 1. `0x9BA6` is deprecated generally.

Reviewer 2: The top flow feels cleaner to me. The big risk with either of these flows is changing one owner on the 2/2, as we can brick it if we transfer to the wrong owner. The options there are either:
1. A single `swapOwner` call. Risk is messing up the `swapOwner` call and bricking the safe
2. Add `0x9BA6` as an owner so it's a 2/3, ensure we can execute a tx, then remove the original `0x847B`. Downside is 3 transactions we need to execute, and there is a period where Foundation can unilaterally upgrade

Author: Tagged in Ben. Personally I feel like changing the Deputy Guardian is much safer than touching the 2/2 but open to be challenged on that.

Reviewer 2: In either scenario (step 2 of the top flow, or step 4 of the bottom alternate flow) we do have to change owners on a 2/2 and will have the same decision between `swapOwner` and a three step process where the Foundation temporarily has unilateral control. The difference is just which 2/2 it is

Author: Yeah I guess you're correct on that point!

# Deputy Pause Module

## Context

The Foundation Safe is given the ability to act as the Security Council Safe for a limited number
of safety-net actions on OP Mainnet. For instance, the Foundation Safe can act as the Security
Council Safe to trigger the Superchain-wide pause function. These powers are given to the
Foundation Safe through the `DeputyGuardianModule` installed in the Security Council Safe.

## Problem Statement

The Foundation Safe pre-signs certain transactions to reduce response time in case of an emergency.

> Because pre-signed Safe transactions are dependent on the nonces of that Safe, these pre-signed

Reviewer 3: As we are talking about two different Safes, we should make it clear/disambiguate which safe we refer at the end of the sentence

Because pre-signed Safe transactions are dependent on the nonces of that **Safe**

> Because pre-signed Safe transactions are dependent on the nonces of that Safe, these pre-signed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because pre-signed Foundation Safe transactions are dependent on the nonces of that Foundation Safe, these pre-signed
```

Reviewer 3: Disambiguating which safe we refer to, as there are two safes.

Reviewer 2: There's also two foundation safes :) 
```suggestion
Because pre-signed Foundation Operations Safe transactions are dependent on the nonces of the Foundation Operations Safe, these pre-signed
```

Reviewer 2: Ah this is mentioned in the next paragraph, I'm indifferent to how this thread is resolved

transactions become invalidated any time the Foundation Safe is required to sign literally any
other transaction. In an attempt to reduce the overhead from this state of affairs, a *second*
Foundation Safe sometimes referred to as the "Foundation Operations Safe" with the exact same
configuration as the original Foundation Safe was made to be the Deputy Guardian.

Even with this second Foundation Safe, pre-signed pauses are invalidated on a regular basis
whenever an upgrade touches the `DeputyGuardianModule`. Gripes with the pre-signed pause system
could fill a whole role of toilet paper and are not just limited to the issues noted above.

## Proposed Solution

We propose eliminating the pre-signed pause system entirely by introducing a `DeputyPauseModule` to

> be installed into the primary Foundation Safe. The `DeputyPauseModule` would allow a deputy account

Reviewer 3: **"deputy account"** Shall we specify if this is EOA or Smart Contract?

Reviewer 2: Let's also specify if the module will allow exactly one deputy pauser, or a mapping of various allowed pausers

to act as the Foundation Safe to trigger the Superchain-wide pause functionality. The deputy

> account would not have any other capabilities.

Reviewer 2: Let's get a bit more specific on the Safe changes. Currently we have:
- `0x847B5c174615B1B7fDF770882256e2D3E95b9D92`: Known as "Foundation Upgrades Safe", deployed on 2024-02-08, this is used as one owner on the 2/2 upgrader (L1 ProxyAdmin Owner) Safe with the security council.
- `0x9BA6e03D8B90dE867373Db8cF1A58d2F7F006b3A`: Known as "Foundation Operations Safe", deployed on 2021-01-16, this is used for presigned pauses, and is also one signer on Base's 2/2 Safe

Because 0x9B is older, I assume this is the primary foundation safe being referred to? So we'd install the module on this 0x9B safe, change the 2/2 with the security council to use this Safe, and deprecate the 0x84 safe? We should ask the data team to help find any usage of that safe that we might be forgetting (i.e. any contract with `847B5c174615B1B7fDF770882256e2D3E95b9D92`, or it's alias, somewhere in storage)
